Summary of changes for 8.12 (#12462)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/changes.rst

Summary of changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|Coq| version 8.12 integrates many quality-of-life improvements,
in particular with respect to notations, scopes and implicit arguments,

> along with many bug-fixes and a reworked reference manual. The main changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
along with many bug fixes and improvements to the reference manual. The main changes
```

"reworked" suggests that we're done but there's still a lot more ahead

Reviewer 2: "improvements" is too weak to express these changes though: each version contains its lot of improvements to the refman. If you don't like "reworked" maybe "restructured" works better.

Reviewer: To me, "restructured" only suggests the reorganization of sections with the new outline but not the detail changes for the syntax.  (restructure: "to change the makeup, organization, or pattern of")

How about "major improvements"?  "extensive improvements"?  "monumental improvements" :-) ?

Reviewer 2: "major improvements" sounds good

Author: Yep, major sounds more appropriate.

include:

- New `binder notation`__ for non-maximal implicit arguments using :g:`[ ]`
  allowing to set and see the implicit status of arguments immediately.
- New notation :g:`Inductive I A | x : s := ...` to distinguish the
  `uniform`__ from the non-uniform parameters in inductive definitions.
- More robust and expressive treatment of `implicit inductive`__
  parameters in inductive declarations.
- Improvements in the treatment of implicit arguments and partially applied
  constants in `notations`__, parsing of hexadecimal number notation and better
  handling of scopes and coercions for printing.
- A correct and efficient `coercion coherence`__ checking algorithm, avoiding
  spurious or duplicate warnings.

> - An improved :g:`Search` `command`__ which accepts complex queries. Note that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An improved :cmd:`Search` `command`__ which accepts complex queries. Note that
```

  this takes precedence over the now deprecated `ssreflect search`__.
- Many additions and improvements of the `standard library`__.

> - Overhaul of the `reference manual`__ giving a more coherent view of the system,
>   along with consistent grammar notations that are up-to-date with Coq's grammar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improvements to the `reference manual`__ include a more logical organization of chapters
  along with updated syntax descriptions that match Coq's grammar in most
  but not all chapters.
```

"overhaul" incorrectly suggests we're done.

My best guess at the moment: Ltac chapter will be done within the next few days.  We may also be able to update Ltac2 and/or the tactics chapter in time for 8.12.  That leaves only SSR and several less-central chapters that don't have a lot of syntax to update.

Reviewer 2: Ltac2 might be feasible for 8.12.0, but for the tactics chapter I think it is best to target 8.13.

Author: Ok. Let's not oversell it, I switch to your wording @jfehrle

__ 812Implicits_
__ 812Uniform_
__ 812ImplicitInductive_
__ 812Notations_
__ 812Coercions_
__ 812Search_
__ 812SSRSearch_
__ 812Stdlib_
__ 812Refman_

Additionally, the :tacn:`omega` tactic is deprecated in this version of Coq,
and we recommend users to switch to :tacn:`lia` in new proof scripts (see
also the warning message in the :ref:`corresponding chapter
<omega_chapter>`).

See the `Changes in 8.12+beta1`_ section and following sections for the
detailed list of changes, including potentially breaking changes marked
with **Changed**.

Coq's documentation is available at https://coq.github.io/doc/v8.12/refman (reference
manual), and https://coq.github.io/doc/v8.12/stdlib (documentation of
the standard library). Developer documentation of the ML API is available
at https://coq.github.io/doc/v8.12/api.

Maxime Dénès, Emilio Jesús Gallego Arias, Gaëtan Gilbert, Michael
Soegtrop and Théo Zimmermann worked on maintaining and improving the
continuous integration system and package building infrastructure.

> The OPAM repositoryy for |Coq| packages has been maintained by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OPAM repository for |Coq| packages has been maintained by
```

Guillaume Claret, Karl Palmskog, Matthieu Sozeau and Enrico Tassi with
contributions from many users. A list of packages is available at
https://coq.inria.fr/opam/www/.

The 59 contributors to this version are Abhishek Anand, Yves Bertot, Frédéric
Besson, Lasse Blaauwbroek, Simon Boulier, Quentin Carbonneaux, Tej Chajed,
Arthur Charguéraud, Cyril Cohen, Pierre Courtieu, Matthew Dempsky, Maxime Dénès,
Andres Erbsen, Erika (@rrika), Nikita Eshkeev, Jim Fehrle, @formalize, Emilio
Jesús Gallego Arias, Paolo G. Giarrusso, Gaëtan Gilbert, Jason Gross, Samuel
Gruetter, Attila Gáspár, Hugo Herbelin, Jan-Oliver Kaiser, Robbert Krebbers,
Vincent Laporte, Olivier Laurent, Xavier Leroy, Thomas Letan, Yishuai Li, Xia

> Li-yao, Kenji Maillard, Erik Martin-Dorel, Guillaume Melquiond, Ike Mulder,

Reviewer 2: According to the capitalization on https://poisson.chat/, I believe "Xia" is the surname.

Author: Right, thanks!

Guillaume Munch-Maccagnoni, Antonio Nikishaev, Karl Palmskog, Clément
Pit-Claudel, Pierre-Marie Pédrot, Ramkumar Ramachandra, Lars Rasmusson, Daniel
de Rauglaudre, Talia Ringer, Pierre Roux, Kazuhiko Sakaguchi, Vincent Semeria,
@scinart, Kartik Singhal, Michael Soegtrop, Matthieu Sozeau, Enrico Tassi,
Laurent Théry, Ralf Treinen, Anton Trunov, Bernhard M. Wiedemann, Nickolai
Zeldovich and Théo Zimmermann.

Many power users helped to improve the design of this new version via

> the issue and pull request system, the |Coq| development mailing list,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the GitHub issue and pull request system, the |Coq| development mailing list,
```

Perhaps obvious but might as well be specific as you are for the other tools

Maybe also give the email address for the dev mailing list?

Author: Right, done.

Reference manual
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

>   .. _821Refman:

Reviewer 3: 21?

Author: Fixed, thanks!
